SUE AIKENS: All of my food
got wiped out.
I need to now replace
from ground zero.
NARRATOR: Several months ago,
a horrifying accident left
Sue Aikens injured
and her camp unattended.
Upon her return, she was
forced to dispose of spoiled
meat from Kavik's food supply.
SUE: Probably lost around
$18,000 in food.
NARRATOR: She has begun to
restock her food,
but to survive the winter
ahead, she'll need more meat
and protein.
Caribou right here.
Half a mile.
Yep.
Time to go.
I've got no time to prepare,
but I gotta get meat.
I don't get meat,
I don't have nothing.
Real nervous about trying to
take a shot with this.
I don't wanna pooch it.
I am gonna have to get
right up his backside.
And I'm on the road.
It could be that the caribou,
they're not alarmed, they're
just looking for food.
He could have come here,
and he's gonna follow it down.
The caribou migrated out
almost all in force.
They came through here, couple
hundred-thousand thick,
and went south early.
Three months early.
Anything I see I've gotta
try and get.
I'm not giving up. But it sure
would have been nice to see
him standing this way.
I know, those little son
of a guns, they're right
here, they're right here.
I know it.
Perfect opportunity
fucking gone.
CHIP HAILSTONE: If you can't
teach 'em how to
make a lot of money,
you can teach 'em how
to live without it
and be proud and happy.
That's really the best
education you can
give a kid.
So we're gonna set this net,
and we're gonna catch
ourselves a bunch of salmon.
And we have different kinds of
salmon that come here.
And er, we're gonna make
dog food and people food.
And food for gifts and giving
and trading and whatever else
we feel like doing.
NARRATOR: For the Hailstones,
it is crucial to harvest
migrating salmon
to survive the coming winter.
They will spend several days
net fishing, a native method
that has been passed down
for generations.
AGNES: Check it out.
You can see the fish splashing
already.
Fun!
So we're hoping
there's quite a few fish
out there.
CHIP: Feel free to advance in
the boat.
Thank you, dear.
Bring it upside,
bring it upside.
AGNES: Oh, fish on!
(EXCLAIMS)
We're definitely gonna have
salmon dinner tonight.
Boy, that was fun watching
the fish get caught to the net
as you pull it.
CHIP: Have a salmon
for dinner.
Salmon are a valuable
resource, really valuable
in Alaska.
Tasty fish, they're full
of fats, full of oils.
They've got a lot of good
vitamins and minerals
and proteins,
and it's all just
good for you.
It's fish. It's brain food,
you know?
Well, I got two fish but it's
still catching the boat more
than it's catching fish.
Fucking boat.
Not a good boat for checking
a net in. Everything is
caught on everything.
Any boat's a good boat to
check a net in if you're
really trying to,
but this one's not ideal.
This one right here has
lots of snags and rivets
and screws
and oarlocks and back corners.
We have an older boat that's
a Boston Whaler.
And I'm thinking I'm gonna go
pick that up.
CHIP: I had an old boat
that we were using
for a net-checker,
and it has a leak
that's irreparable.
And it just sinks.
As we fill it up with more and
more salmon,
it sinks lower and lower
and fills with more water.
But I have a brand-new motor
coming. So I'll have
an extra motor.
I'm gonna go pick the wife up
our really good fishing boat
that we have over at our
son's house.
It'll have real smooth sides
and my wife will fish to her
heart's delight without
snagging anything while
checking net.
I'll have two motors, I'll
have two boats.
We've got six good fish,
seven good fish.
Yep. No complaints about that.
AGNES: Seven fish, awesome.
(AGNES EXCLAIMS)
ERIK SALITAN: If I don't have
any boss chewing me out.
Tomorrow's Monday morning
and I don't have
to be to work.
My name's Erik Salitan.
I'm a registered
guide outfitter,
and I operate two lodges
in Alaska with my wife,
Martha Mae.
We're gonna go ahead and
try a little bit longer
distance here
and see if we can, er,
be comfortable
at a 35-yard range.
Bullseye.
Did I hear you say "bullseye"?
-ERIK: Bullseye!
-Nice shot.
Yeah. I been practising
up here.
Let's see if I can't catch
me a bear with a bow.
The state of Alaska's
encouraging sportsmen to
go out
and harvest brown bears
and black bears,
so that they don't predate
upon the moose calves.
Individual bears can kill
an astonishingly large
number of moose calves
in a very short period, and
that really puts a hurt
on the moose population.
I'm gonna throw my stuff
together if you throw a
little food together for me.
How many days? How many days'
worth of food?
Oh, I'd say if I don't
catch anything, in two days
I'll come home.
MARTHA MAE: What's challenging
about this hunt is that you're
not shooting
with the rifle any more,
you're shooting with a bow.
So you gotta get closer,
you gotta practise a lot more.
It's totally different.
So you gotta be comfortable
with the bow.
And confident, which is
hard to be.
-The fog lifted.
-Yeah, Matt should be.
Actually, it burned all
off, so.
No, this is a lot nicer
than it was yesterday.
I, I had seen all kinds
of planes flying around
this morning.
Yeah.
Let's go dump this stuff
out by the airstrip.
I got some extra arrows
in my pack
and got my frame pack
and a knife and a sleeping
bag. I got a tent.
Here comes Matt.
How was the weather on
the way over?
-Beautiful.
-MARTHA MAE: Good.
-Had an awesome trip.
-MARTHA MAE: Nice.
MATT: So we'll load ya up
and get going.
Whoa, whoa, you better be
careful with my bow now.
I know how you pilots
are.
All right, guys.
Hopefully we'll be seeing
ya in a couple days.
-All right, ya all buckled
in back there?
-I'm good to go.
MARTHA MAE:
While Erik and Matt are gone
doing their hunting thing,
I'm gonna hold up
the fort here.
Just day-to-day chores, taking
care of fishing clients,
facilitating whatever needs
to be done.
JESSIE HOLMES:
This is how I go out
and relax in the summers.
I go out and get prepared
for winter.
All right, so fish are
here and it's time to go
catch some.
I got these dogs.
It's a heck of a lot better
when I got fish
for 'em and I don't have
to buy dog food.
NARRATOR: In Nenana, Jessie
Holmes relies on the fish
from the surrounding rivers to
feed himself and his team
of sled dogs.
After getting his fish wheel
into the current,
Jessie must now get
the wheel operational
to take advantage
of the summer chum salmon run.
This is a fish wheel,
and it's used to catch
large amounts of salmon
during their peak runs,
which right now, the summer
chum are in their peak run.
I gotta get this big,
heavy-ass fish wheel
downriver eight feet,
and then I gotta push it out
into the river about 15 feet,
so I can get it to
the depth that I can drop
the baskets down.
Time to get my spar log
attached here.
A spar log is the log that you
anchor to the raft
and you use to push the wheel
out into the current.
This is a lot of work for
one man.
Everything's heavy
and heavy-duty when it comes
to fish wheels, so.
You gotta be in really good
physical shape to do
these things.
This is anchoring the spar log
to the raft here.
This fish wheel is
in pretty bad condition,
you know?
But once it's dropped down
it should still work
and catch fish.
But you know, not really
that safe working
on this thing.
Once I get these secured
on there, I can start pushing
this fish wheel out there
and then I'll be able to see
some action.
Just a one-step-at-a-time
kind of thing, you know?
So far I think this is going
better than ever, possibly.
Ah, fuck!
Hey, good to see the old
wheel running, right?
(LAUGHS)
I was going across and I was
gonna put a choker up on this,
and start pulling it,
and the rope that I had
tied there,
hanging on to a piece of wood,
that was kind of minimal
and broke.
I ran off of it, no problem.
This is dangerous stuff
out here.
I'm just really hoping
that, you know, this
thing catches some fish.
I love that sound.
ERIK: If I wanted to do
something easy,
I'd go live a totally
different life.
MATT: Eighty degrees, Erik.
ERIK: Ridiculous.
MATT: That is ridiculous.
I was like holy crap, man,
I need, almost need
a T-shirt.
-There's a bear.
-Where?
-Oh, yeah.
-And there's a bear
on the left.
-Oh yeah, a black
bear too.
-Yep.
NARRATOR: In order to manage
the number of black bears
and increase the moose
population in the area,
Alaska Fish and Game has
issued Erik a permit
that will allow him to hunt
for predator control.
-Hey, good old
Notellum Creek.
-All right.
ERIK: In hour one of my solo
archery bear hunt.
Pretty pumped.
Matt just ripped outta here.
Freaking beautiful out here.
I'm gonna throw up my bomb
shelter.
One danger you always
wanna look out for is
that rising water.
I like set my tent up right
near an escape route, away
from the channel of the river.
Nothing sucks worse than
waking up and having water
running through your tent.
Pretty beautiful day.
See if I can't get out there
and find me a bear.
Think I'm gonna take
my sleeping bag with me
in case I gotta
set up somewhere.
Woo, tell you what.
Here's a pretty good
brown bear track.
Pretty good size bear, real
fresh.
It's maybe a eight-foot brown
bear, so it's just a little
bit bigger than my hand.
Already on fresh
bear sign.
Predator control is
essential in Alaska.
If you're an ethical and
a responsible hunter
and you want to harvest moose,
you should put in
the effort to harvest
animals like bears
that eat those animals as
well, to keep a good
balance.
I'm gonna ease my way up
this river towards those
mountains
and see if I can't find
a nice place to settle in
and glass for the night.
A couple miles from my
little camp I set up.
It's really thick, thick
stuff in here.
A bunch of bear tracks
in the soft soil.
I'm gonna get up
in these rocks and set up.
Just do a nice
spot-and-stalk hunt, see
if I can't wait,
spot one from up high,
and then sneak down
these rocks and put
the sneak on him.
This looks like a prime,
prime area.
Archery hunting's a lot
different than a lot of
other types of hunting.
You have to get much
closer to the animal.
There's a lot more skill
involved.
You got to practise with a bow
a lot more than you do a rifle
to be proficient.
You got a bear 150 yards,
200 yards, broadside,
you have a rifle that's set
up properly, the hunt's over.
You, you got him.
A well-placed arrow can kill
an animal just as efficiently
if not more efficiently
than a bullet.
There's bear trails
walking left and right,
and up the river
and down the river,
and all through this meadow,
so I'm just gonna kind of
lay up here,
and I'm gonna watch all night.
This is a perfect place
to find a bear coming
across an opening.
I'm gonna snuggle in here
to my little er, rocky
hillside and my bivy sack,
and see if I can't hold down
the fort and put the sneak on
a black bear tonight.
SUE: This is mine,
that's yours.
You want to cross it, we're
gonna have to have words.
This is a .30-30.
Am I hesitant to take a shot
on it?
Absolutely.
So I've got Betsy over here,
Bob's just gonna kinda have
to help me.
If I have to take a shot here,
I've got a little padding
that I've put underneath
and it's not gonna knock
it back.
It's gonna bump it.
But I've gotta get meat.
NARRATOR: In order
to replenish
her winter food supply,
Sue must take advantage
of the small window
to hunt caribou
as they migrate
through the tundra.
Maybe I'll tool down my
little road, see if I see
anything.
I'll keep using my eyes,
and I'm just gonna see
what I find.
I'm gonna beat myself up again
for a little while
because I hesitated.
You know, I mean that's
something a virgin does
on the wedding night,
that's not something somebody
in their fifties does if they
want to stay full of food.
This is normally where I drop
down to get into the river.
Those caribou and different
animals will take
this little highway.
Where they were in the
river,
this is sort of,
the natural progression
for where they'd jump in
and hide from me.
Okay, I can definitely see
bears been through
because it's all tore up.
I can see where some
of the tracks go this way
and it looks like
something has climbed
up there.
So it's possible I made
the wrong choice coming down
and they went up.
We're gonna be going into
the water here
in about 30 feet.
(GUNSHOT)
That hurt like a son
of a bitch, but I got
one down.
I will not waste a single
ounce of your meat.
No way, little buddy.
The pain here is just
unreal.
I mean I couldn't even hold it
upright, buzzing going
all the way down here.
These three fingers are
getting pretty numb,
this one's getting
pretty numb.
The next thing I need to do,
go get the Argo,
get over here,
and take care of what I got.
Hey, little girlfriend.
Er, this is absolutely one
of the caribou that
I saw earlier.
I have zero meat
in the coffers,
so this is an absolutely
necessary step
for my own survival.
This is a small cow, so you're
not gonna be busting out any,
you know,
C-Note on your er, poundage.
Meaning 100 pounds? No.
Fifty, sixty, maybe.
Yeah, my shoulder is not
enjoying this processing
at all.
This was a reality check
for me that I am not
bigger than my injury.
I don't always have to be
at the top of my game,
but you know,
I've always kind of said,
you know, the top of my game
is a pretty lofty height.
I am constantly in a state of
learning, constantly in
a state of evaluation.
Obviously I don't live
with a group of people,
so it's self-evaluation.
I'm hard on myself.
But I have to be.
Had to be from a young age.
This should hold a caribou.
I get him cut up and deboned,
no problem.
What I want to do is get
what I've got home.
I've got meat here I need to
process and, er,
go from there.
Thank you, caribou.
JESSIE: It's not like it's
just one task up here. It's
multitasking all the time.
Make two jobs out of one.
It's turning nicely
and straight so nothing's
falling to pieces yet.
I can't believe I got it
started up, you know?
NARRATOR: After getting
his fish wheel
into the current,
it is critical for Jessie
to make sure that it's
capable of catching fish
during the summer
chum run.
We just got to catch the
fish now.
Fish dinner.
We just need enough fish to go
cook for some dogs.
Oh!
I just don't wanna fucking be
here all night doing this.
It's a major,
heavy thing.
It's a major operation to run
one of these things.
Something is always breaking
and needing fixed
and repaired.
Oh, shit.
The axle sleeve slipped off
of the axle.
The fish are running
right now.
And done a lot
of work already.
Maybe after my accident there,
I'll get it down this time.
CHIP: Up here you can live
in a tent and still be mayor,
and people will respect
you even more.
CHIP: Love you, girls.
Well, we're sorry to wake you
up so early and all.
But we're out of here.
We're gonna go pick up
that boat motor.
We'll be back.
We're going over to Deering.
I got a brand-new motor
over there I'm gonna pick up.
And er, I'm gonna put it
on this boat here,
and then we have another boat
over there
that we want to bring here
really badly for fishing
right here.
AGNES: Love you girls.
CHIP: Love you.
AGNES: You girls stay
together now.
-Yep, stick together.
-And be loud.
And I see the tide's
already shifted and
started going down, so
the time to leave here is
pretty quick.
And we want to catch a tide
to get through
our shallow lagoon.
We don't really get to
Deering that often, but
erm, it's gonna be fun.
We have grandkids over there
and erm, friends.
We should be to Deering in
three hours probably.
CHIP: My motor just
fucking died.
AGNES: Your motor!
CHIP: Ah, we came out of the
lagoon and I thought
that the tide being high
I could go over the
sandbar, and it stopped
me dead.
CHIP: Take us sideways,
would ya?
CHIP: I'm changing propellers.
Standard operating procedure
when we hit the ocean.
You can see the difference
between the propellers.
This one's been scarred,
marred, hit, and jarred.
What we're out for is
efficiency,
and this is the place
that I always change
my prop out.
Just come right here, stop,
takes five minutes,
and then I, er, I can go
a little faster.
Aw, man, that thing weighs
a ton.
All right, here we go.
Are you ready?
Oh, yeah.
A lot more power.
ERIK: If I wasn't doing this
with my life, I really don't
know what I would be doing.
This is a sweet spot.
And I'm just gonna own this.
I'm just gonna watch it,
watch it, and watch it.
Bears are very predacious
on, er, little baby
moose calves,
so Fish and Game is trying
to keep more meat in the woods
for all Alaskans,
and, er, they've opened up
this predator control area.
I'm happy to oblige
and help out.
I get to enjoy this.
How many people's lives do
you get to just be out in
the wild,
and see things that are
painfully beautiful?
I get to sit here,
up on a hill,
glassing for bears.
Living out here is just,
it's awesome.
That bear took off,
ran through the clearing,
and it climbed up
that big birch tree.
I watched these meadows
for a long, long time.
I'm confident we're gonna find
that bear dead just inside
the tree line.
I'm gonna ease up in there
with an arrow all knocked,
ready to rock and roll.
See if we can't find ourselves
a real nice bear, black bear.
NARRATOR: Erik has wounded
a black bear
with his bow and arrow.
He will track the animal into
the woods to harvest the hide,
but finding the animal
in the dense terrain is
a dangerous task.
I'm gonna leave
my extra clothes here.
I'm gonna leave my binoculars,
my rangefinder
and my sleeping bag.
If you're gonna make
your living off the natural
resources of Alaska,
that privilege comes
with a responsibility.
It's, it's my responsibility
and every other person
who's a consumptive user
of these natural
resources to manage
wildlife here in Alaska.
Seems like there's a lot
of bears working this
area.
I might even get another one
here before I'm outta here.
SUE: If I carried around
every piece of resentment
I ever built up,
I wouldn't be able to drag
it to the runway.
What I'm doing, this is one
hindquarter and some of the,
some of the back strap.
Er, and all's I do,
this is the heart.
But for me, time is
of the essence.
Let's get it cut up.
I've got a little bowl
going here.
These are hocks,
this portion of your body
or your calf.
But you put that again in the
crockpot or the pot on top
of the oil stove,
and that cooks, cooks, cooks,
and it cooks it right down
into nothing,
so then you have a tender
little pile of shredded meat.
This is not tender by any
stretch of the imagination
on the hock.
You know, and a lot of people
just throw it out or give it
to their dogs and say,
"Oh, it's not edible,
I can't use it."
And I'm like, well, yeah,
it's edible.
You just have to cook
it a little differently.
This is what you would
call the ham of the, er,
hindquarters.
I'm just gonna cut it up into
larger sections.
I follow the line
that the meat is
already giving me,
the muscle structure,
and separate it.
Something slimy.
I am proud and happy
that I'm starting to put
something back.
It's not Sue-Zero.
It's Sue's got something
for her freezie right now.
I can take time, make
it pretty now, but I've got
plenty of time this winter.
If you look at that, yum-yum,
it's winter, right?
That is a nice piece of meat.
That's a beautiful steak.
I can make myself a couple
of those, and then there's
a little roast I can put in.
The start, ya know, I get
a certain amount done,
and then I wanna get it cooled
down and starting to freeze.
Go, me! This is the, the part
where it feels good.
And it feels like I'm
accomplishing something.
Then I just keep chipping
away at it.
I mean, it's not a lot.
That's the first bit towards
my winter success.
Boo-ya!
Suzie's got meat.
JESSIE: I have no problem
with all the work,
but you gotta work
around the clock up here
just to be prepared
for winter.
The axle sleeve slipped
off of the axle.
Trying to get my sleeve
back on this axle,
and it's not going
very smoothly so far.
Every year, I'm constantly
doing maintenance
to this thing.
It's an old wheel, it's been
through hell, it's been
in the water its whole life
and it's gonna go back
in the water when it's done.
I'm about to have to try
to figure something
else out here.
I'm gonna try to put
this spike in there and see
if I can't get it picked up,
put it on a block of wood
to where I can get my sleeve
under it somehow.
I went to the Tanana River
University of Fish Wheels.
You gotta make the best
of what you've got and what's
at hand, you know.
It's not like I'm gonna go to
a hardware store and buy
new pieces for this
when it's right here,
you know, or right
on the river bank.
I'm gonna try to make
a little block of wood
with a saddle in it,
so if I can get this thing up
I can set it back down
on this.
Some people might be liking to
be idealistic and simplistic,
but I'll tell you one thing,
up in Alaska you ain't nothing
without a chainsaw.
Everything I do demands
a chainsaw.
I'm not sure whether this
is plan C or D.
(LAUGHS)
I'm trying to time this,
'cause there's only
a certain rotation
that I can get this spike
hooked on, and if it goes
past it,
it just gets tight
and falls off.
I'm trying to get this block
underneath there,
and that'll work if I can get
it under there.
Then we can get
this thing going.
Kinda taking me some time
to get the timing right.
Ah, fuck!
Thank God for the suffering
that you catch a fish, right?
That's a nice-looking chum
right there, baby.
Chum money.
We gotta get this thing
going right.
I could go with that, but
that just won't last for
too long,
I need to get it further
in there, so.
Whoo!
That's kinda scary business
right there.
There's another fish,
so it might be working out.
That's what I'm talking about,
chum money.
Yeah, go right in there!
That's right! Two fish.
Two fish down!
I'd say for the amount
of dogs I got,
once we got 17 fish in there
we'll be cooking, baby.
I'm gonna have myself a
little snack, here.
That's some rich
food right there.
That'll keep you going.
Nice to have a little
rich snack.
Straight up from the land.
Can't get no better than that.
Now the dogs are gonna eat,
I'm gonna eat.
It's a blessing to have
this old fish wheel.
CHIP: I see a lot of it around
here, where these kids learn
their natural resources.
But kids elsewhere,
I don't see that.
AGNES: Parking spot.
(EXCLAIMS)
I would say this was a pretty
standard crossing for us.
We just did about three hours
in the ocean, so not so bad.
How's it go, Joe?
Er, just beached my boat.
My friend Joe came over
and offered us a ride.
I'm gonna go into town.
AGNES: It's nice to get here
and somebody's here to help
us bring our stuff up.
We're gonna go look at
the boat motor, and see
the boat situation
and go visit with the boy
and the grandkids.
-How's it going?
-It goes, how you been?
-Pretty good.
-Hi, Des.
-You see us go by in the boat
and go park at the spit?
-AGNES: Hi, son.
Hi, baby. Hi.
I brought a gallon of resin
to finish this off.
First layer of resin's dry,
just have to set
and do it again.
Oh, yeah.
If we get some paper onto
those sanders and get
an extension cord out here,
we could get this all done
by tonight. If I start here
in a little while,
then I'll have the rest
of the day free to go visit.
Oh, wow, when did this
get here?
Just got in the other day,
or a couple days ago.
Well, we'll work on this boat
here and bring our 20-horse
to this boat,
launch it, and go park it
at the spit when we're done
with this, fixing this one.
Well, for us you know, it's,
er, having two boats is
always better than one.
Just like having
two snow machines.
When one's down, you got
the other one to back
yourself up with.
When my wife is fishing
with that one,
I can be off hunting
and wood-gathering
with the other one.
I'll be safer out here in the
ocean, and she'll have an
easier time
pulling a net over the side
with a smooth-sided boat
with no rivets and no seats
and none of that stuff.
I'm smoothing this up.
I'm using this sander
right now to erm,
get all the lumps and bumps
and high points that were left
when the, erm, this keel
got rebuilt.
So the next step
in the process is adding
the, erm, hardener.
I'm just doing a resin,
a resin-over.
It's already been
fibreglassed.
Basically I'm taking and I'm
putting another coating
of resin.
And I just wanna seal
everything up. I wanna make
sure it's all gone over.
It's all been proofed.
It's kind of like
a final paint job.
Final waterproofing.
I treat all boats as if I want
them to float for forever,
because I'm gonna put
my kids in 'em and stuff,
so I try to make sure
that they're in tune
all right.
This boat's got a lot of great
memories, a lot of adventures.
Lot of crazy shit,
lot of stuff with my kids.
I look forward to seeing
this thing in action again.
That should about do it.
That's the end of it.
I'm gonna let this dry
for a couple hours.
And we'll let it go
from there.
It's all good to me.
ERIK: Natural resources are
key to my life
as a subsistence user.
They're also key to me
as a commercial operator.
I'm here at the spot
where I shot the bear, where
he was actually standing.
You can see the vegetation's
all knocked down here.
I gotta go into some pretty
thick, nasty stuff here to try
and find him.
Ditch my pack here for two
reasons.
One is I don't wanna get hung
up in case I gotta do
something that's a little bit,
little bit rowdy in there.
The other reason is this'll
let me remember exactly
where the bear was.
If I get screwed up tracking
and I'm circling and I get
all kinds of lost
and screwed up, come back to
this pack and I can
start all over.
That bear cut right
through here.
And then it climbed up
one of these birch trees.
And it was making a wild
racket, it went 30, 40 foot up
the birch.
It's one of these two trees
right here.
Not exactly sure,
but I'm willing to bet
when I get over there I'm
gonna see some sign of it.
Let's see if we can't sneak up
in there.
We're stepping into
another world here.
This isn't bright and sunny
and hot,
this is shady and full
of shadows.
This is the world of the
bears.
A whole understory
of this forest here is
these ferns.
I'm 6'4" and they're
waist-deep on me.
Which means that bear,
dead or alive,
you're not gonna see him
till you step on him.
That's the tree that bear
climbed.
You can see the blood
on the base of that
birch right there.
I heard him come down.
Crash, a little bit,
then I didn't hear nothin'.
I'm hoping that bear's
dead right up in here.
(WHISPERING)
Pretty dead to me.
He's gone.
That concludes my first
solo archery bear hunt.
Got a dead black
bear here.
One clean shot, kept it
under 25 yards,
good ethical range.
Did the moose a favour here
in this predator control unit.
You know, I was able to get
this bear,
have a little bit more, er,
little bit more meat running
around in the woods for all
Alaskans, and life is good.
My bear here.
Got my pack.
I'm pretty pumped,
this was a successful hunt.
Little worn out, ready to
head home,
eat some good food Martha'll
make for me, and, er,
get out of here.
I enjoy just a little
quiet time.
It lets me, er, reflect
on things.
You know, a good way to
regroup, refocus,
be a good husband, be
a good business owner,
a good operator,
and keep moving forward.
So the harvest of this bear
may have saved a large number
of moose.
It's a positive thing for
my psyche overall.
CHIP: If you're gonna work,
you can do it smiling
or crying,
but you're gonna work.
Boat here's about 800
pounds, total.
And the three of us, to move
it to the beach, is gonna be
quite a struggle.
Er, basically what I'm gonna
do next is go over, get some
wood, get my son to help me.
We're gonna go put them down
as rollers, and we're gonna
roll this
boat right down to the beach.
We'll stop, we'll put the
engine on, we'll push it
in the rest of the way,
we'll start it up and, er,
go park it in the harbour
over there.
Okay. Stop, stop, stop!
Every few feet we gotta
move this thing, we gotta
reposition our logs.
(GRUNTING) All right.
There we go.
We're almost there.
Right there, right there,
right there, right there.
One, two, three, go.
Ah, we're just getting
the motor fixed.
Yeah, you'll meet me down
at the, at the other boat with
the 60-horse.
Thanks!
The boat is awesome.
The boat'll do the job the way
it's done before and it's
intended to do soon.
All the repairs seem to
have turned out well.
Everything seems to have
turned out well.
No complaints.
The only water in the boat is
what splashed over the back
while we were getting out
of the waves.
Good, look like son's coming
here with the motor.
AGNES: Just in time.
I'm getting this motor mounted
on with Doug here,
and we're almost done.
Pretty cool, huh?
We'll go test it and son,
you'll watch us and make sure
we're okay and come back yeah?
Either that or at least be
laughing as we drown.
Wow, it goes backwards!
Feels powerful.
Wow, power?
Power.
Usually we don't even try
to go out in big waves,
but with a bigger motor
and more power, we should
be able to do this.
(AGNES EXCLAIMS)
Everything at your control,
with your thumb?
Yeah. I like it.
I'm impressed.
(EXCLAIMS) We got
a brand new boat motor.
I'm so happy.
We also got this Boston Whaler
net-checker...
-Revived.
-...revived.
CHIP: Well I came to Deering
in one boat,
and I'm leaving with two
'cause I came to Deering
to pick up a new motor.
Since I got a spare motor,
with a new motor on here,
I can't run two of 'em,
we decided that we needed
to revive an old fishing boat.
So, erm, my wife was
really needing a fishing
boat anyway
and it worked out pretty well.
Nothing but the best.
AGNES: Thank you.
CHIP: Yeah.